---
title: "SavingNonhumans MANCEPT"
bg: turquoise
color: black
fa-icon: newspaper-o
---

SavingNonhumans would like to announce the following workshop:
<br />
<br />

# <center>‘Intervention or Protest: Saving Nonhumans’</center>
<br />

<center>to be held at</center>
<br />

### <center>The MANCEPT Workshops in Political Theory, University of Manchester, 1-3 September 2015.</center>
<br />

Conveners: Gabriel Garmendia da Trindade (GXG322@bham.ac.uk) & Andrew Woodhall (ACW269@bham.ac.uk)

Overview:

Within current political, social, and ethical debates – in academia and society – activism and how individuals should approach issues facing nonhuman animals, have become increasingly important, ‘hot’ issues. Individuals, groups, advocacy agencies, and governments have all espoused competing ideas for how we should approach nonhuman use and exploitation. Ought we proceed through liberation? Abolition? Segregation? Integration? As nonhuman liberation, welfare, and rights’ groups increasingly interconnect and identify with other ‘social justice movements’, resolutions to these questions have become increasingly entangled with questions of what justice and our ethical commitments demand on this issue, and the topic has become increasingly significant and divisive.

This workshop aims to bring together theorists to consider how this question, and contemporary issues facing nonhumans (such as experimentation, hunting, and factory farming), ought to be answered. Questions to be asked include: ‘should the movement(s) for nonhuman animals be considered similar to other social movements, and if so what can be learned from them?’, ‘when facing nonhuman use or exploitation is protest, nonviolent resistance, active non-violent intervention, or violent intervention, the best (and most just) method?’, ‘ought we intervene in nature (for example to prevent predation), or should we ‘let them be’?’, ‘how far should we intervene, in what way(s), and by what means?’, and ‘what aim should those concerned with nonhumans strive for (e.g. liberation, integration, segregation, etc), and how could this be accomplished with how divided the movement is?’.

The overall aim of the workshop is to not only bring together new thoughts on this important topic of ‘intervention or protest’ regarding nonhumans, and to see what other social movements can contribute to these insights, but also to use this to embellish the current fledgling enquires into what the political turn in nonhuman liberation means for the specific issues nonhumans face.

Possible areas of interest are, but are not limited to:
-	Intervention in nature
-	Protest or intervention on behalf of nonhumans
-	Violence or peaceful intervention/protest – which should we do.
-	Links with, and/or things that can be learned from, other social movements
-	The aim of approaching nonhuman issues and how this is best to be accomplished

The workshop website is at: http://www.mancept.com/mancept-workshops/mancept-workshops-2015/panels-ii/intervention-or-protest-saving-nonhumans/
<br />
<br />

### <center>Call for Abstracts:</center>
<br />

Abstracts should be at maximum 500 words. Proposals should not indicate the author’s name as the selection process will be blind.
Accompanying the abstract should be a short biography, detailing status, name, institution, contact information, and the title of the abstract/proposed paper.
Abstracts should be sent in .doc, .docx, or .pdf format.
The closing date for abstract submission is: 14th May 2015
Successful authors will be notified by: 18th May 2015
Abstracts must be sent electronically to: savingnonhumansmancept@gmail.com
The successful papers will be allocated 45 minutes each for presentation, with 15 minutes of Q&A.
<br />

The call is open to all, including postgraduates. We are committed to gender equality and thus strongly encourage female submissions.
<br />
(Graduate students should be aware that MANCEPT offers bursary applications for attendance (applications are made to MANCEPT, not this workshop). The deadline for this is the 10th June.) 
<br />
MANCEPT registration will be required also. See MANCEPT website for details: http://www.mancept.com/mancept-workshops/mancept-workshops-2015/
<br />


<center>This conference fully supports SWIP and gender equality. All efforts are being made to ensure this, including propriety within the sessions - notably the Q&A.</center>

